- [Instructor] This module will talk about
opening up simple RESTful endpoints
within your Spring MVC application.
REST is a representational state transfer,
and a RESFTful web service follows an architectural style
which helps us access resources on the web
and return textual representations of it.
We can perform action on these resources
by means of simple and well-defined operations.
For example, you can retrieve resources,
or you can manipulate them in the form of update and delete,
or you can even add more resources on the server.
RESTful web services highly promote
interoperability between systems.
For example, if you have a REST service coded in .NET,
you can easily access it with a Java client.
So even if both the systems work on different platforms
and run in different languages, it wouldn't matter.
They can work together in harmony.
Whenever a client invokes a REST service,
it will do so with the stateless HTTP protocol.
HTTP defines a standard set of method types
in order to define your operations:
GET which will help you retrieve resources,
POST and PUT which helps you update and insert resources,
DELETE, as the name suggests, help you remove a resource.
So whenever you develop a REST service,
it will always comply to these specific method types.
A typical RESTful service is identified
with a uniform resource identifier which looks like this.
This is basically a URL.
The first part is the host name and the port number.
So that's the machine on which your REST service is working.
Whatever follows after the port number is the resource part.
So this URL, when you invoke,
is going to get you a list of products.
The second one is very specific.
It also gets you a product but with an ID of 01.
That product ID, 01, is appended to the end of the URL
in the form of a query parameter.
The third one does the same job as the second one
except that the product ID, 01, is appended
to the end of the URL in the form of a part variable.
Query parameters and part variables
are means to filter the results to get specific data.
The fourth one is identical to the first one
but completely serves a different purpose
because the fourth one is trying
to make a POST type of a request
which means you're adding a product to the service side,
and the information of the product
will be passed into the request body
when this service is invoked.
Similarly, you can define URIs
for the other request types too, for PUT and DELETE.
Just to make an additional point here,
whenever you're talking about a REST service,
the body of the request and response
is often referred to as payload.
Now let us talk about data transfer in REST service.
Whenever a client invokes a REST service,
the exchange of data happens by XML or JSON.
JSON is JavaScript Object Notation,
and it borrows its syntax from the JavaScript language.
It represents data in a simple key value way.
If you compare JSON and XML,
XML is a little cumbersome to work with.
It is strict.
It requires a predefined schema.
It is heavy and hence takes time
to get transported over the network.
JSON, on the other hand, is lightweight,
just a string representation of values,
and is very convenient to work with.
Moreover, if your application architectures support
AJAX design, which is Asynchronous JavaScript and XML,
then it is a pressing need to return JSON
as your response payload.
This is because browsers have a limited capability
to work with XML.
They can very conveniently parse JSON
and display data for your views.
Now in Spring MVC, you have a specific view
which is called MarshallingView.
Marshalling is a process where you convert
an inanimate object to an XML representation.
So you can return this kind of a view
from your Spring MVC controllers
so that XML response can be rendered.
This Marshalling view will have to specified
in your context configuration file,
and it is a little tedious to work with this
if you have many kinds of data representations
that you want to make for your clients.
Internally, MarshallingView will use
one of Spring's many Marshallers like JAXB2 Marshaller.
So Marshalling of XML happens through JAXB.
Instead, we could use Spring MVC's HTTPMessageConvertors
used for JSON representation.
Internally, Spring uses Jackson.
So converting your Java object to JSON
and JSON back to Java is very convenient
with the help of these convertors.
Under the hood, message convertors will use
Jackson's Jackson 2 JSON message convertor implementation
to do the conversion of data for you.
It essentially means that now in your controller methods,
you do not have to return the view name.
If you've observed in all the controllers
that we have returned as a part of H plus,
we kept returning a logical view name
in the form of a string
which was then mapped to a JSP template.
We no longer need to do that in REST
because REST essentially just returns data.